Welcome back.
How was the remove method.
It was pretty tough wasn't it.
Now I don't expect you to be able to get this even for me.
It took quite a lot of time to get this working and I'm going to give you another chance to finish it.
If you want I have my code minimized here just to show you the if statements and the steps that I'm
taking.
So you could always pause this video but let me just go over the steps.
I'm going to take and usually I like coding step by step.
But when it comes to this function it's really really hard to go step by step when you're not coding
yourself or you don't have a diagram to point to and show.
So I'm going to leave the code for you so you can implement it on your own.
And actually like I always recommend dried out with a piece of paper to understand what's going on.
Otherwise if I just coded this along it would be a 30 minute video of you getting bored and then you're
going to have fun with that as structures anymore and we don't want that so all we're doing is well
if we remove we're going to check if there's anything in the root if there isn't while the tree's empty
there's nothing to remove we're going to return false otherwise we're going to grab the current node
as the star route first and then we do something new here that we haven't seen before we declare a new
variable called Parent note and this is something you may have realized I was you coded this along.
We need a reference to the parent because if we remove something from here such as 14.
Well we need to before we get to one Geb a reference of 14 so that when we get to one we have access
to 30 so that we can link 30 to one so if we go back here now that I have parent node variable and I
do my loop to check if the value is less than the current node in which case I'll go left and this should
be familiar.
But this time I'm also keeping track of the parent node and otherwise if we need to go to the right
while then we go to the right but also keep track of the parent node.
Now this is the interesting part we're looping through everything here and nothing's too crazy until
we get to a match.
Once we get to a match and we find the current node that we want to delete we have a match.
We need to get to work and we have three options here.
The first option is that the current node has no right child if the current node has no right child.
Let's have 55 as an example or let's do 14 as an example.
If I remove 14
you saw that all we did was we remove 14 but we kept a reference to the parent node and just moved one
up.
That was nice and easy and in here with option 1.
That's really all we do we first make sure that the parent node doesn't equal to no.
That means we're modifying the root node otherwise the root valuable variable gets updated to our current
node otherwise if parent is greater than the current value then make current left child a child or the
parent if parent is less than the current value make left child or right child of the parent.
Again I know this is confusing and like I said this is something that you might have to go on your own.
I'll leave comments out here for you so you can actually play around with it and play around with visual
go so you understand what's happening.
So that's the first option if that's the case then do that.
If the right child if we have a right child but their right child doesn't have a left child let's find
an example that has.
So we have a right child that doesn't have a left child.
So that is 54.
What happens when we remove 50 for
I click on this
54 gets removed and we just place 55 instead of 54 now so in that case we go again check of the parent
node is not null.
So that we have to replace the root node.
Otherwise we go through similar steps to reassign the node.
What about the last option.
Right child that has a left child.
So if we go here we have a right child.
Let's say if we want to delete 30 that has a left child 38.
So if we want to delete 30
and he'd go
we still traverse until we get to the left and then oh boy we do a bit of a magic this will require
you to read through the code and I've left some nice comments for you so that it makes sense but we're
essentially finding the right child's left.
Most child and looping through this changing the sub trees of the tree like I said this is quite a bit
advanced and really hard to explain.
Just on the screen so I do recommend it if you weren't able to get the remove function to go through
this step by step.
I'll link to the code right in the resources so you can play around with this and see that it works
but to check that remove does in fact work.
Let's say I'll remove zero from this list if I click Run I get undefined because there's nothing to
remove but if I remove let's say 170 and I click Run I get true and if I traverse our list and try and
grab our tree now let's open up developer tools
paste this PRESENTER And now if we go to 9 20 and we see that the right node is now empty where 170
should have been.
So we're able to delete the node successfully that's enough for now.
You can play around with the remove method if you want.
You can try and code yourself.
It will take a bit of time.
I know I keep saying this.
I do encourage you not to get disappointed if the removed method was really difficult.
I didn't really want to include it in the course because it is overly complex and not something you
want to get too worried about when it comes to an interview.
But I thought some of you might be interested in it just make sure that it's not something that discourages
you as long as you can do the inserts and lookups.
That's what matters for interviews.
I'll see in the next one.
Bobby.